J.R. Costa 
Data Proposal capstone

Today’s Modern NBA is driven by star power and by the increased prevalence of the three point shot. The biggest stage of the NBA is the playoff’s is the playoffs and one of the big questions that is constantly asked is what affect these stars have on their teams in the playoffs. What I will attempting to look at is the overall affect that each player has when he is on the floor during the playoffs and if there is an actual star effect that helps them propel there teams forward. Most NBA teams and owners are always concerned about if their best player truly does help them win games and if he is truly worth all the money and if that player can bring the franchise to the Larry O’Brian trophy, Winning an NBA championship.
The method that I will use in order to do this is to look at the “star” players on each of the 16 playoff teams which for most teams consists of their two best players and for a few teams only their best player, those teams for the previous playoffs consist of the Jazz, Celtics, Hawks, Houston, OKC (Oklahoma City), and the Pacers. The data that will be obtained from Basketball reference and Kaggle which will provide the shot logs and the time signatures that will allow for separation between what is considered clutch, five minutes or less, along with other statistics such as PER, +/-, and VORP which are stats that also account for defense which is needed for certain stars since they provide power on both ends of the floor. This is different from other analysis as this will provide a more in depth look than had been previously shown along with other factors such as the ability the provide to other players while on the floor. The method that will be used is first to define the star players on each team and designate their normal values by looking at default ranges for these players. Next we will look at playoff values and then looking at clutch time values in order to determine simple indicators such if the player is clutch or not, next we will look at what they contribute to the directly though there play and then look at how they affect teammates play such as shooting, defense and other stats and notice a general trend for that. Then finally we will look at these against other stars to see how they compare when facing the best competition,  once all of this is done will make final conclusions and comparisons to try and form the idea of what these star players do for  the team and how they improve them during the playoffs.

